# Contributing to salmon_culverts

## Set up your GitHub account
If you haven't already, **[sign-up for a GitHub account](https://github.com/join)**. This will allow you to at the very least comment in discussions. Once you register, send me your user name or email and I will add you as a *Collaborator* allowing you to contribute to the project *repository* (or *repo*). The repository is the collection of folders and files associated with the project, typically including scripts, generated figures, raw data, generated reports, and documentation.  

## Get up-to-date on active Issues and Projects
GitHub has a bunch of excellent project and work-flow management features. We use both *issues* and *projects* for the **salmon_culverts** repo.

First, let's take a look at the **[Projects page](https://github.com/vandeynze/salmon_culverts/projects)**. This page is used to track progress on different (sub-)projects related to the overall project. Right now, the only project is *[Join spatial variables for PNSHP culvert worksites](https://github.com/vandeynze/salmon_culverts/projects/1)*. If you go to the project page, you'll find cards arranged in columns. Each column indicates the progress for a task related to the completion of the project. 

Each of these cards is an issue. On GitHub, an issue is essentially just a message thread where collaborators and users can discuss topics related to the project. If you click an issue, a pane on the right will open up with more details, including a short description. Click the title and you will be brought to that issue's page. An issue's page is essentially a timeline of comments and actions related to the issue. If you're logged in, leave a comment and say hello!
 
Issues can also be viewed on the **[Issues page](https://github.com/vandeynze/salmon_culverts/projects)**. You'll see that issues have *labels* that can be used to quickly filter between issues. The best issues to get started with are those labelled with **(needs data)[https://github.com/vandeynze/salmon_culverts/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22needs+data%22]**, **(review)[https://github.com/vandeynze/salmon_culverts/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Areview]**, and **(help wanted)[https://github.com/vandeynze/salmon_culverts/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22help+wanted%22]**.  
- **(needs data)[https://github.com/vandeynze/salmon_culverts/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22needs+data%22]** issues are where we still need to finalize the datasources to join to the culvert work sites. Please post links to datasources, tutorials, or other discussion related to data options in these issues!
- **(review)[https://github.com/vandeynze/salmon_culverts/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Areview]** issues are open for code review of the specified script. Please post comments and questions about the methods and code in these issues!
- **(help wanted)[https://github.com/vandeynze/salmon_culverts/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22help+wanted%22]** issues are where there are opprotunities to take ownership of a step in the analysis. Post here if you want to discuss divying up some tasks or collaborating on methods and code.

## Review complete or proof-of-concept scripts
One of the most helpful ways to help is to review existing code and files. This will help catch mistakes, identify alternative approaches, and make improvements. If you have the chance, please take a look at the code, try to run it yourself locally step-by-step, and make notes on anything that doesn't seem to be working as intended or could be improved. Then, post a comment on the relevant issue and we can discuss how we can best proceed.

The easiest way to look through the repo on your own computer is to download it directly from GitHub. From the repo [homepage](https://github.com/vandeynze/salmon_culverts/), just click the green ***Code*** button to the right and above the folder and files list. Click ***Download ZIP***, extract the folder, and you're good to go.

If you plan on possibly making changes in the future, **install [GitHub Desktop](https://desktop.github.com/)** and allow it to handle downloading the repo. GitHub Desktop is a simplified way to interact with Git for version control. Once you login, you can create a local version of the salmon_culverts repo by clicking ***File*** --> ***Clone repository...***. From there, click over to the *URL* tab and paste the repo's URL (*https://github.com/vandeynze/salmon_culverts*). You can set where the folder containing the repo will be created by modifying *Local path* before clicking ***Clone*** to download a local version. Open up the local version of the repo by navigating to the folder path you set or clicking ***Repository*** --> ***Show in Explorer*** and take a look around.

## Create a personal branch and participate in development
Before you make any local changes, return to GitHub Desktop and **make a new *branch***. A branch is a seperate version of the code, and GitHub will track any changes you make between your branch and the parent branch from the moment the branch is created. This makes it easier to reconcile conflicts when participating in parallel development.

To make your personal branch, click ***Branch*** --> ***New branch...***, give your branch a name, and click ***Create branch***. Now it's time to make some edits. Make your way to the local version of the repo and open up a file (say README.md) and add a line at the end with some text. If you return to GitHub Desktop, you will see that it has tracked the change to the file. If you select the file, you can see where your line was added.

To save this change as a "checkpoint" that you can return to later, you will need to **make a *commit***. A commit is like an annotated save of the version of the branch as it is. Navigate to the ***Summary (required)*** and ***Description*** fields and describe your changes. Then click the big blue ***Commit to [branch name]*** button to make your commit.

Finally, when you're ready to share your changes with everyone else, you will need to **publish your branch** and **make a *pull request***. Publishing your branch uploads your version of the repo to GitHub where it can be viewed by others. You can publish easily by clicking the big blue ***Publish Branch*** button that appears in the right pane once you commit your last changes. Then, you will make a pull request, which is simply a form on GitHub to merge your personal branch with the master. Create the request by clicking ***Branch*** --> ***Create pull request***, which will bring you to the GitHub form. Add some description of what you did, and I can take it from there!

## Non-R programs and reproducibility
Is R not your daily driver? No worries! You can still use GitHub to make pull requests and track changes you make with other programs. Ideally, script can be included that can take data from the */data/* or */output/* folders as an input and write the output to the */output/* folder. If scripts are not used, a protocol should be provided describing the methods, inputs, and outputs. Regarless, please comment in the relevant issue and we can talk about the best way to integrate other languages or programs into the work-flow.